# About
[Argon Gas Setup (ArGSet)](https://gitlab.camk.edu.pl/mkuzniak/cezamat/-/wikis/ArgSet) is a gas cell that supports the measurement of fluorescence from cryogenically cooled materials excited by argon scintillation light.

ArGSet Calibration and Analysis Tools (ArGCAT) codebase has been developed for photosensor calibration and performing data analysis.

# Codebase Layout
- 'main' branch contains the code calibration of Silicon Photomultiplier (SiPM).
- 'process-wls-data' branch contains the code for analysis of data from wavelength shifter measurements.
- 'Legacy/' codes are no longer needed and kept only for archival purpose.
# Requirements 
To satify all requirements do these:
1. rename jar_*.yml to jar.yml
2. edit jar.yml to change prefix a/c to your miniconda installation.
3. `conda env create -f jar.yml`
4. This will not install peakdetect package which needs to be installed via pip. Also, peakdetect is outdated package, its source code needs to be tweaked slightly to make use of newer versions of scipy FFT. Pyreco has separate installation steps. See [pyreco repository](https://gitlab.camk.edu.pl/mkuzniak/pyreco).
5. Remember to switch Pyreco repository to 'zle_midas' branch for LED data or 'zle_4ksamp_length' for WLS data.

# Computing resources
wf search script consumes a lot of computing resources, it should only be executed on an interactive node or submitted as a slurm job.\
<span style="color: red"> Warning: </span> The code probably won't be able to complete execution on a login node. This is your only warning!

# Tools
Each of the following tools perform a specific function:
- create_event_catalogue.py\
    Expects midas data files as input. Writes a pickle file containing event catalogues for each channel.
- calculate_pulse_param.py\
    Does all processing from finding clean waveforms to fitting with SiPM pulse model. Writes results to pickle files.
- notebooks/histogram_pulse_param.ipynb
    - Channelwise concatenation of events from several runs
    - Performs histogramming on fit parameters, applies cut, and fits gaussian to the resultant histogram.
    - Makes Fingerplots from concatenated fit catalogues. The instructions for generating finger plots will be provided in a separate document.
    - Also, calculates the SPE charge and SNR from the data. 

    - **Special: self consistency of AR-MA filter based approach**\
        We want to see if the pulses found using calculate_pulse_param.py with a specific set of AR-MA parameters would yield back the same set of AR-MA parameters.
        1. keep the argset.ini at default values of AR-MA filter.
        1. run the calculate_pulse_param.py script
        1. process the fit_catalogue with histogram_pulse_param.ipynb. Fine tune the fitter and find the optimum value of pulse parameters.
        1. Use these parameter in argset.ini (sigma and tau should be multiplied by 4 ns)
        1. run the calculate_pulse_param.py script again
        1. process the fit_catalogue with histogram_pulse_param.ipynb. Fine tune the fitter and find the optimum value of pulse parameters.
        1. verify that parameters found in previous step are similar to parameters in step 3.
- notebooks/histogram_pulse_param.ipynb contains the code for making fingerplot from filtered waveform.

# Catalogues
The eventwise data products are catalogued in form of pandas DataFrames. I call these catalogues. The catalogue for all channels are packaged together as a python dict and written to disk as pickle file.\
There are three different types of catalogues generated by these codes: 
- event catalogue: it contains waveforms in a DataFrame. *Future:* I will explore the option to save these as numpy compressed array (.npz) files instead.
- clean catalogue: contains list of events deemed to be clean along with estimated peak location. The precise definition of clean event is defined within the script, but it means an event with only one prominent pulse.
- fit catalogue: contains list of clean event along with SiPM pulse model parameters. The event for which model parameters could not be estimated contain a none object in fit_param column instead. 

# Tools for Analysis of Wavelength Shifter Data:
The branch 'process_wls_data' provides following tools for processing wavelength shifter data:
- src/process_wls_data: Does the actual processing: applies event selection cuts, etc. 
- util/hist2d_eventID_sum.py: time evolution of collected charge for all subruns
- util/combine_wfs.py: combines subruns into a single DataFrame and pickles it.
- util/truncate_wfs.py: combines subruns and saves truncated data into a single DataFrame. Saves the pickle.

## Note
**Pickle files:** Pickle is a data serialization format for python objects. Pickle files are neither secure nor memory efficient. Pickle files should never be used for sharing data. *Future:* I will explore alternatives to pickle files.
